Description of columns

index: a unique value assigned to each bioassay
title: the title of the bioassay
description: the description of the bioassay
protocol: the protocol employed for the bioassay. this field is empty in most cases.
y_true: the manual annotation of the bioassay (values can be -1, 0 or 1).

Codebook

The data consists in Pubchem bioassays that measure compound activities on proteins. The aim is to classify bioassay phenotypes in one of the following category:
- activation if the bioassay measures the activation of a protein,
- inhibition if the bioassay measures the inhibition of a protein,
- unclassified if if the activity measured is not clear or if the bioassay measures activation and inhibition of a protein at the same time.

The phenotype classification is expressed as following:
1: activation
-1: inhibition
0: unclassified

The phenotype may not be clear in the title, you need to look into the description and protocol columns to confirm it for all bioassays.

Examples

Example 1

title: 'binding affinity to rorgammat ( unknown origin ) in cell-free system'
description: "title : discovery of 6-oxo-4-phenyl-hexanoic acid derivative a rorγt inverse agonist showing favorable adme profile . abstract : the retinoic acid receptor-related orphan nuclear receptor gamma t ( rorγt ) , which is a promising therapeutic target for immune disease , is a major transcription factor of gene related to psoriasis pathogenesis , such a interleukin ( il ) -17a , il-22 , and il-23r . inspired by the co-crystal structure of rorγt , a 6-oxo-4-phenyl-hexanoic acid derivative 6a wa designed , synthesized , and identified a a ligand of rorγt . the structure-activity relationship ( sar ) study in 6a , which focus on the improvement of it membrane permeability profile by introducing chlorine atom , led to finding 12a , which ha a potent rorγt inhibitory activity and a favorable pharmacokinetic profile ."
protocol: ""

Reasoning:
- title: the title mentions the binding affinity to a protein called "rorgammat". However, a binding is required for both activating or inhibiting a protein.
- description: in the title section of the description, the compound "6-oxo-4-phenyl-hexanoic acid derivative" is mentionned to be an agonist for rorγt (same protein mentionned in the title).
- protocol: the protocol section is empty, so it can be ignored.

Conclusion: the phenotype of this bioassay is activation, because it was explicitely mentionned in the description.

Phenotype: 1

Example 2

title: 'inhibition of recombinant human lp-pla2 at 100 nm using 2-thio-paf a substrate measured for 10 min by plate reader analysis'
description: 'title : discovery of potent and orally active lipoprotein-associated phospholipase a2 ( lp-pla2 ) inhibitor a a potential therapy for diabetic macular edema . abstract : lipoprotein-associated phospholipase a2 ( lp-pla2 ) is considered to be a promising therapeutic target for several inflammation-associated disease . herein , we describe the discovery of a series of pyrimidone derivative a lp-pla2 inhibitor . systematic structural modification led to the identification of several pyrimidone compound with promising in vitro inhibitory potency and pharmacokinetic property . compound 14c , selected for in vivo evaluation , demonstrated decent pharmacokinetic profile and robust inhibitory potency against lp-pla2 in sprague-dawley ( sd ) rat . furthermore , 14c significantly inhibited retinal thickening in stz-induced diabetic sd rat a a model of diabetic macular edema ( dme ) after oral dosing for 4 week . taken together , these result suggested that 14c can serve a a valuable lead in the search for new lp-pla2 inhibitor for prevention and/or treatment of dme .'
protocol: ""

Reasoning:
- title: the title mentions the inhibition of a protein called "lp-pla2".
- description: in the title section of the description, a compound is mentionned to be an inhibitor for the protein called "lipoprotein-associated phospholipase a2 ( lp-pla2 )".
- protocol: the protocol section is empty, so it can be ignored.

Conclusion: the phenotype of this bioassay is inhibition, because it was explicitely mentionned in the title and in the description.

Phenotype: -1

Example 3

title: 'qhts assay for inhibitor and activator of human alpha-glucosidase cleavage of glycogen'
description: 'nih chemical genomics center [ ncgc ] nih molecular library probe production center network [ mlpcn ] mlpcn grant : r03 mh084841-01 assay submitter ( pi ) : wei zheng ncgc assay overview : alpha-glucosidase is responsible for the hydrolysis of terminal , non-reducing 1,4-linked alpha-d-glucose residue , which release alpha-d-glucose . it is a lysosomal hydrolase that is required for the degradation of a small percentage ( 1-3 % ) of cellular glycogen in human . deficiency of this enzyme result in glycogen-storage disease type ii ( gsdii ) , also referred to a pompe disease , an autosomal recessive disorder . structurally normal glycogen is accumulated in the lysosome and cytoplasm in affected patient , primarily in muscle tissue . excessive glycogen storage within lysosome may interrupt normal functioning of other organelle and lead to cellular injury . in turn , this lead to enlargement and dysfunction of the entire organ involved ( eg : cardiomyopathy and muscle weakness ) . it ha been reported that the improper folding and trafficking of alpha-glucosidase resulting from genetic mutation may account for a significant number of pompe patient . 1-deoxynojirimycin , an inhibitor of alpha-glucosidase , wa reported to exhibit pharmacological chaperone activity , which significantly increase the mutant enzyme activity in cell . we optimized this alpha-glucosidase assay in 1536-well plate format for identification of novel small molecule inhibitor or activator with structure other than the sugar analog in order to develop new pharmacological chaperone . previous assay of alpha-glucosidase have utilized a non-natural fluorescent substrate to probe enzyme activity . the present assay measure enzyme activity on glycogen using a coupled-assay system to glucose oxidase .'
protocol: 'ncgc assay protocol summary:\nthis is an enzyme assay using glycogen from bovine liver (sigma catalog #: g0885) as the substrate and recombinant human alpha-glucosidase as the enzyme preparation. upon hydrolysis of the substrate, the glucose product can be detected using the amplex red glucose oxidase assay kit (invitrogen catalog #: a22189). the product of this reaction can be read with a fluorescence plate reader with an excitation at 573 nm and an emission at 610 nm. data were normalized to the controls for basal activity (without enzyme) and 100% activity (with enzyme). the ac50 values were determined from concentration-response data modeled with the standard hill equation.\nassay buffer for enzyme reaction: 50 mm citric acid (titrated with potassium phosphate to ph 5.0), 0.01% tween-20 (ph 5.0 is an optimal condition for this enzyme assay)\nassay buffer for amplex red reaction: tris-hcl, ph 7.5\n1536-well assay protocol for the alpha-glucosidase assay:\n(1) add 2 ul/well alpha-glucosidase enzyme solution (4 nm final)\n(2) add 23 nl compounds in dmso solution. the final titration was 0.7 nm to 77 um.\n(3) add 1 ul of glycogen substrate solution (30 ug)\n(4) incubate at 37 c for 40 min\n(5) add 2 ul tris-hcl buffer with amplex red reagents \n(6) incubate 45 min at room temperature. \n(7) detect the assay plate in a viewlux plate reader (perkinelmer) with ex=573 nm and em=610nm.\nkeywords: alpha-glucosidase, pompe disease, pharmacological chaperone, chaperone therapy, high throughput screening, alpha-glucosidase inhibitor, mlsmr, mlscn, nih roadmap, qhts and ncgc'

Reasoning:
- title: the title mentions the activation and inhibition of a protein called "alpha-glucosidase".
- description: the description mentions the compound "1-deoxynojirimycin" to be an inhibitor of "alpha-glucosidase". However, it also mentions further in the text that the bioassay is performed to identify novel small molecule inhibitor or activator.
- protocol: the protocol mentions the measurement of AC50 values, which are the dose/concentration that induces half-maximum response (typically IC50 for inhibition assays or EC50 for stimulation assays).

Conclusion: the phenotype of this bioassay does not seem clear according to all fields of the bioassay, it could be activation and inhibition at the same time, as explicitely mentionned in the title and the description.

Phenotype: 0